# SC01-TC02: Create and Configure a Supervisor Cluster Namespace(s) with RBAC

vSphere administrators can create namespaces on a Supervisor Cluster. After creating the namespace, vSphere administrators can provide access to DevOps engineers, who may then run vSphere Pods and Kubernetes clusters created through the VMware Tanzu Kubernetes Grid Service.

---

## Test Case Summary

This test procedure demonstrates creating a namespace on the SC. Then, through a RBAC policy, enabling access to a DevOps user/group. Next, it demonstrates accessing the SC API and namespace resources as a DevOps engineer.  

---

## Prerequisites

* Completion of (SC01-TC01)[sc01-tc01.md]
* vSphere Administrator console and user credentials
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials

---

## Test Procedure

1. Using the vSphere Administrator console and credentials, login to the VC Web UI and navigate to **Menu > Workload Management**.

2. Select the *Namespaces* tab then, select **CREATE NAMESPACE**.

3. In the pop-up dialog, expand the ***vCenter_Server_Name*** and ***vSphere_Datacenter_Name*** to list the vSphere cluster(s) enabled as a SC(s). Select the ***vSphere_Cluster_Name***. In the *Name* field, enter **`ns01`** as the name for the namespace. Then, select **CREATE** to create the namespace. The site will redirect to the *ns01* namespace management view. 

4. On the *Status* tile, verify the *Config Status* for the new namespace.

    Expected:
    `Running`

    Actual:

5. On the *Permissions* tile, select **ADD PERMISSIONS**. 

6. In the pop-up dialog, select the ***Domain_Name*** from the *Identity source* drop-down menu. Then enter either the ***DevOps_UserName*** or ***DevOps_GroupName*** in the *User/Group* search field; the field should auto-resolve values found through the identity source connection. Lastly, select **Can Edit** from the *Role* drop-down list. Select OK to save and close.

7. Verify the *Can edit* permissions list updates with the selected ***DevOps_UserName*** or ***DevOps_GroupName***. 
    > Note: If the permissions list does not update immediately, allow a few seconds for auto-refresh or manually refresh the page.

8. On the *Storage* tile, select **ADD STORAGE**. In the pop-up window, select the ***Storage_Policy_Name***. Then, select **OK** to save and close the window.

9. Verify the `Storage Policies` list updates with the selected ***Storage_Policy_Name***. 
        > Note: If the permissions list does not update immediately, allow a few seconds for auto-refresh or manually refresh the page.

10. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the SC API. 

    <pre>kubectl-vsphere login --vsphere-username ***DevOps_UserName***@vsphere.local --server=https://<b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b>--insecure-skip-tls-verify</pre>

    Expected:
    <pre>Logged in successfully. <br> You have access to the following contexts: <br> <b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b><br> ns01</pre> 

    Actual:

11. Set the context for the SC with the command

    <pre>kubectl config use-context <b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b></pre>

12. Verify status of SC, Kubernetes master and URL with the command.  

    ```execute
    kubectl cluster-info
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>"Error from server (Forbidden): services is forbidden: User "sso: <b><i>DevOps_UserName</i></b>" cannot list resource "services" in API group "" in the namespace "kube-system"</pre>

    Actual:

13. Verify status, role, and version for all control-plane nodes and worker nodes.

    ```execute
    kubectl get nodes
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>Error from server (Forbidden): nodes is forbidden: User "sso: <b><i>DevOps_UserName</i></b>" cannot list resource "nodes" in API group "" at the cluster scope</pre>

    Actual:

14. Review the available SC API resources with the command.

    ```execute
    kubectl api-resources
    ```

15. Check authorization to create additional namespaces with the command.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create ns
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>no</pre>

    Actual:

16. Check authorization to create additional storage classes with the command.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create sc 
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>Warning: resource 'storageclasses' is not namespace scoped in group `storage.k8s.io`<br><br>no</pre>

    Actual:

17. Check authorization to list pods in the kube-system namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i get pods -n kube-system
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>no</pre>

    Actual:
18. Check authorization to list pods in the ns01 namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i get pods -n ns01
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

    Actual:

19. Set the context for the ns01 namespace with the command.

    ```execute
    kubectl config use-context ns01
    ```

20. Check authorization to list namespace resources with the command.

    ```execute
    kubectl get all
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>No resources found in ns01 namespace.</pre>

    Actual:

21. Check authorization to create pods in the ns01 namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create pods
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

    Actual:

22. Check authorization to create persistent volume claims in the ns01 namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create pvc
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

    Actual:

23. Check authorization to create ingress resources in the ns01 namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create ingress
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

    Actual:

24. Check authorization to create Tanzu Kubernetes clusters in the ns01 namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create tanzukubernetesclusters
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

    Actual:

---

## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail

Return to [Test Cases Inventory](../README.md###Test-Cases-Inventory)