# SC02-TC03: Use Pod Security Policies with a Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster(s)

Kubernetes pod security policies (PSPs) are cluster-level resources that control the security of pods. PSPs gives control over the types of pods that can be deployed and the types of accounts that can deploy them. Tanzu Kubernetes Grid Service provisions Tanzu Kubernetes clusters with the PodSecurityPolicy Admission Controller enabled. This means that pod security policy is required to deploy workloads. There are two default pod security policies for Tanzu Kubernetes clusters, which are vmware-system-privileged and vmware-system-restricted. The vmware-system-privileged policy is a permissive policy and equivalent to running a cluster without the PSP admission controller enabled. The vmware-system-restricted policy is a restrictive policy that does not permit privileged access to pod containers, blocks possible escalations to root, and requires use of several security controls. Because non-administrative users cannot create privileged or unprivileged pods at all without the proper PSP and bindings, the DevOps engineer must define bindings to allow or restrict the types of pods users can deploy to a Tanzu Kubernetes cluster. For additional details, reference: 

[Using Pod Security Polices with Tanzu Kubernetes Clusters](https://docs.vmware.com/en/VMware-vSphere/7.0/vmware-vsphere-with-kubernetes/GUID-73352A3E-0C72-446B-A1A5-EB14818605B9.html) and [Kubernetes Pod Security Policies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/)

>NOTE: PSP will be deprecated with Kubernetes version 1.21 read more [here](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2021/04/06/podsecuritypolicy-deprecation-past-present-and-future/)
---

## Test Case Summary

This test case procedure demonstrates using the default pod-security policies when deploying workloads and identifying deployment issues related to psp restrictions. Next, it demonstrates applying a custom psp, clusterrole, and rolebinding for accommodating workloads that have requirements between the spectrum of the two default policy options. Lastly, it demonstrates applying a custom cluster policy for serviceaccounts that namespaces automatically inherit.

---

## Prerequisites

* Completion of [SC01-TC01](../operator/sc01-tc01.md), [SC01-TC02](../operator/sc01-tc02.md), [SC02-TC01](sc02-tc01.md)
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials

---

## Test Data

* Container image: `nginx:latest`

---

## Test Procedure

1. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the `tkc01-small` Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster

    ```execute
    kubectl vsphere login --vsphere-username ${DEVOPS_USER_NAME} --server=https://${SC_API_VIP} --insecure-skip-tls-verify --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-namespace ${SC_NAMESPACE_01} --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-name tkc01-small
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    Logged in successfully. <br> You have access to the following contexts: <br> <b><i>${SC_API_VIP}</i></b><br> ${SC_NAMESPACE_01}<br> tkc01-small</pre>

2. Create a new namespace named psp-test

    ```execute
    kubectl create ns psp-test
    ```

3. Deploy the following pod specs to the psp-test namespace

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/pod-default.yaml -n psp-test
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/pod-runasany.yaml -n psp-test
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/pod-privileged.yaml -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    pod/pod-default created
    pod/pod-runasroot created
    pod/pod-privileged created</pre>

4. Monitor pods’ status until all pods report `READY=`**`1/1`** and `STATUS=`**`Running`**

    ```execute
    kubectl get pods -w -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    NAME             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    pod-default      1/1     Running   0          2m21s
    pod-privileged   1/1     Running   0          22s
    pod-runasroot    1/1     Running   0          80s</pre>

5. Deploy the following deployment spec to the psp-test namespace

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/pod-deploy.yaml -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>deployment.apps/pod-deploy created</pre>

6. View the deployment status with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl get deploy pod-deploy -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    NAME         READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    pod-deploy   0/1     0            0           42s
    </pre>

7. List the deployment’s pods

    ```execute
    kubectl get pods -l app=pod-deploy
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>No resources found in default namespace.</pre>

8. Review the events for faults

    ```execute
    kubectl get events -n psp-test --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp | grep pod-deploy | grep Failed 
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>41s         Warning   FailedCreate        replicaset/pod-deploy-7db4f56d44   Error creating: pods "pod-deploy-7db4f56d44-" is forbidden: unable to validate against any pod security policy: []</pre>

9. List the default pod-security policies and settings

    ```execute
    kubectl get psp
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    NAME                       PRIV    CAPS   SELINUX    RUNASUSER          FSGROUP     SUPGROUP    READONLYROOTFS   VOLUMES
    vmware-system-privileged   true    *      RunAsAny   RunAsAny           RunAsAny    RunAsAny    false            *
    vmware-system-restricted   false          RunAsAny   MustRunAsNonRoot   MustRunAs   MustRunAs   false            configMap,emptyDir,projected,secret,downwardAPI,persistentVolumeClaim</pre>

10. Apply a rolebinding to the default psp, vmware-system-restricted, permitting seviceaccounts to instantiate pods in the psp-test namespace

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/psp-test-sa-rolebinding-restricted-psp.yaml
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/psp:serviceaccounts_ns_psp-test created</pre>

11. List the deployment’s pods

    ```execute
    kubectl get pods -l app=pod-deploy -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>No resources found in psp-test namespace.</pre>


12. Review the events for faults

    ```execute
    kubectl get events -n psp-test --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp | grep pod-deploy | grep Failed 
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>9m31s       Warning   FailedCreate        replicaset/pod-deploy-7db4f56d44   Error creating: pods "pod-deploy-7db4f56d44-" is forbidden: unable to validate against any pod security policy: []</pre>


13. Edit the active deployment spec to disable privileged pod containers

    ```execute
    kubectl edit deploy pod-deploy -n psp-test
    ```

14. Change the container security context value for privileged containers from `true` to **`false`**. Then, press **[esc]**, type **`:wq`** , and press **[return]** to save and exit
    <pre>...<br>spec.template.spec.containers.securityContext.privileged: <b>false</b><br>...</pre>

15. Monitor the pod creation process for up to 60 seconds with the watch option

    ```execute
    kubectl get pods -n psp-test -l app=pod-deploy -w
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    NAME                          READY   STATUS                       RESTARTS   AGE
    pod-deploy-689bb7677c-rdbvc   0/1     CreateContainerConfigError   0          17s</pre>

16. Review the events for faults

    ```execute
    kubectl get events -n psp-test --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp | grep pod-deploy | grep Failed 
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    ...
    13s         Warning   Failed              pod/pod-deploy-689bb7677c-rdbvc    Error: container has runAsNonRoot and image will run as root</pre>

17. Delete the rolebinding to the default psp, vmware-system-restricted, initially created for permitting serviceaccounts to instantiate pods in the namespace.

    ```execute
    kubectl delete -f scenarios/devops/psp-test-sa-rolebinding-restricted-psp.yaml -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io "psp:serviceaccounts_ns_psp-test" deleted</pre>

18. Instead of editing a default psp, create a custom psp that prevents privileged pod containers from running but permits pod containers to run as any user. Using a text-editor open and review the *[scenarios/devops/psp-test-psp-cr-rb.yaml](psp-test-psp-cr-rb.yaml)*.

    ```execute
    bat scenarios/devops/psp-test-psp-cr-rb.yaml
    ```

19. Apply the new psp, clusterrole, and rolebinding

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/psp-test-psp-cr-rb.yaml -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    podsecuritypolicy.policy/custom-psp-nonpriv-runasany created
    clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/psp:custom-psp-nonpriv-runasany created
    rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/psp:custom-psp-nonpriv-runasany-psp-test created
    </pre>

20. Delete the faulted pod, forcing the deployment to create a replacement

    ```execute
    kubectl delete pods -n psp-test -l app=pod-deploy
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>pod "pod-deploy-689bb7677c-rdbvc" deleted</pre>

    Monitor the new pods with the watch option for 30 secs

    ```execute
    kubectl get pods -n psp-test -l app=pod-deploy -w
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    pod-deploy-689bb7677c-9w978   1/1     Running   0          8s</pre>

21. Open a shell to the pod-deploy deployment’s pod and identify the user account running the pod container

    <pre>kubectl exec -it pod-deploy-689bb7677c-9w978 sh -n psp-test</pre>

    Then, at the prompt enter id, record the output and close the shell

    ```execute
    id
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)</pre>

    Exit the terminal

    ```execute
    exit
    ```

22. Verify the privileged pod container restriction is in effect by deleting the deployment then recreating it

    ```execute
    kubectl delete deploy pod-deploy -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>deployment.apps "pod-deploy" deleted</pre>

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/pod-deploy.yaml -n psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>deployment.apps/pod-deploy created</pre>

23. Monitor the new pod’s with the watch option for 30 secs

    ```execute
    kubectl get pods -n psp-test -l app=pod-deploy -w
    ```

    Expexted:
    <pre>
    NAME         READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    pod-deploy   0/1     0            0           14s
    </pre>

24. Review the events to confirm the fault

    ```execute
    kubectl get events -n psp-test --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp | grep pod-deploy | grep Failed 
    ```

    Expected:<pre>
    4s          Warning   FailedCreate        replicaset/pod-deploy-7db4f56d44   Error creating: pods "pod-deploy-7db4f56d44-" is forbidden: unable to validate against any pod security policy: [spec.containers[0].securityContext.privileged: Invalid value: true: Privileged containers are not allowed]</pre>

25. Clean up by deleting the psp-test namespace

    ```execute
    kubectl delete ns psp-test
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>namespace "psp-test" deleted</pre>

26. With exception to specific test cases that may require enabling support for privileged containers, apply the following spec as a default cluster binding, allowing system service accounts to deploy nonprivileged containers and run containers as any user.

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f scenarios/devops/psp-test-psp-cr-crb.yaml
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    podsecuritypolicy.policy/custom-psp-nonpriv-runasany configured
    clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/psp:custom-psp-nonpriv-runasany unchanged
    clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/psp:custom-psp-nonpriv-runasany created
    </pre>
    
---
## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail

Return to [Test Cases Inventory](../README.md###Test-Cases-Inventory)