# SC02-TC02: Apply RBAC to a Tanzu Kubernetes Grid Cluster and Granting Developer Access

After provisioning a Tanzu Kubernetes cluster, a DevOps Engineer can grant access to other users such as developers or service accounts by applying a standard Kubernetes RBAC policy spec. For developers, the RBAC binding will reference subjects’ names capable of authenticating via the vCenter Single Sign-On connection.

---

## Test Case Summary

This test case procedure demonstrates the DevOps Engineer creating two namespace on the TKC cluster. Then, applying unique rolebindings to each namespace, which permit separate developer groups “edit” permissions within the namespace, respectively. Afterwards, developers from each group will authenticate with the TKC cluster API and demonstrate RBAC enforcement

---

## Prerequisites

* Completion of [SC01-TC01](../operator/sc01-tc01.md), [SC01-TC02](../operator/sc01-tc02.md), [SC02-TC01](sc02-tc01.md)
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials
* Developer01 Engineer console and user credentials
* Developer02 Engineer console and user credentials

---

## Test Procedure

1. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the newly created *tkc01-small* Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster

    <pre>kubectl vsphere login --vsphere-username ***DevOps_UserName***@vsphere.local --server=https://<b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b>--insecure-skip-tls-verify --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-namespace ns01 --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-name tkc01-small</pre>

    Expected:
    <pre>Logged in successfully. <br> You have access to the following contexts: <br><b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b><br>ns01<br>tkc01-small</pre> 

2. Create two namespaces on the TKC

    ```execute
    kubectl create ns ns-alpha
    kubectl create ns ns-bravo
    ```

3. Using a text-editor open the file *scenarios/devops/ns-bravo-rbac-rolebinding.yaml*. Update the *`subject.kind`* and *`subjects.name`* values. The *`subject.kind`* value can represent either a developer Group or User. Regardless of whether the *`subject.kind`* is a User or Group, the *`subject.name`* must be in the format of `sso:`*`User|Group_Principal_Name`*. Save and close the file.
    > Note: Use a different User or Group in Step 4. If referencing a Group, verify the user accounts do not belong to the same group.

4. Using a text-editor open the file *scenarios/devops/ns-bravo-rbac-rolebinding.yaml*. Update the *`subject.kind`* and *`subjects.name`* values. The *`subject.kind`* value can represent either a developer Group or User. Regardless of whether the *`subject.kind`* is a User or Group, the *`subject.name`* must be in the format of `sso:`*`User|Group_Principal_Name`*.
    > Note: Use a different User or Group from Step 4. If referencing a Group, verify the user accounts do not belong to the same group.

5. Apply the rolebinding spec to the respective namespaces

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f ns-alpha-rbac-rolebinding.yaml -n ns-alpha
    kubectl apply -f ns-bravo-rbac-rolebinding.yaml -n ns-bravo
    ```

6. Review the permissions associated with clusterrole, *edit*, using the command

    ```execute
    kubectl describe clusterrole edit
    ```

7. Using the **Developer01** console and credentials, login to *tkc01-small* Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster

    <pre>kubectl vsphere login --vsphere-username ***Developer01***@vsphere.local --server=https://<b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b> --insecure-skip-tls-verify --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-namespace ns01 --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-name tkc01-small</pre>

    Expected:
    <pre>Logged in successfully. <br> You have access to the following contexts: <br><b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b><br>ns01</pre> 

8. Set the context namespace for ns-alpha with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl config set-context tkc01-small --namespace=ns-alpha
    ```
    Expected:
    <pre>Context "tkc01-small" modified.</pre>

9. Verify status of SC, Kubernetes master and URL with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl cluster-info
    ```
    
    Expected:
    <pre>Error from server (Forbidden): services is forbidden: User "sso:Dev01@vsphere.local" cannot list resource "services" in API group "" in the namespace "kube-system"</pre>

10. List the TKC cluster namespaces with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl get ns
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>Error from server (Forbidden): namespaces is forbidden: User "sso:Dev01@vsphere.local" cannot list resource "namespaces" in API group "" at the cluster scope</pre>

11. List the configured storage classes with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl get sc
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>Error from server (Forbidden): storageclasses.storage.k8s.io is forbidden: User "sso:Dev01@vsphere.local" cannot list resource "storageclasses" in API group "storage.k8s.io" at the cluster scope</pre>

12. Check authorization to view namespace details with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl describe ns ns-alpha
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    Name:         ns-alpha
    Labels:       <none>
    Annotations:  <none>
    Status:       Active

    No resource quota.

    No LimitRange resource.
    </pre>

13. Check authorization to create pods in the ns-alpha namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create pods -n ns-alpha
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

14. Check authorization to create services in the ns-alpha namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create svc -n ns-alpha
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

15. Check authorization to create PVCs in the ns-alpha namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create pvc -n ns-alpha
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

16. Check authorization to create pods in the ns-bravo namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create pods -n ns-bravo
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>no</pre>

17. Check authorization to list pods in the ns-bravo namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i get pods -n ns-bravo
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>no</pre>

18. Using Developer02 in place of Developer01, repeat steps 7-11

19. Set the context namespace for ns-bravo with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl config set-context tkc01-small --namespace=ns-bravo
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>Context "tkc01-small" modified.</pre>

20. Check authorization to list resources in the default namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i get pods -n default
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>no</pre>

21. Check authorization to create pods in the ns-bravo namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl auth can-i create pods -n ns-bravo
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>yes</pre>

---
## Status Pass/Fail

* [  ] Pass
* [  ] Fail

Return to [Test Cases Inventory](../README.md###Test-Cases-Inventory)