# SC02-TC08: Service Mesh Lifecycle Management

After provisioning a Tanzu Kubernetes cluster, a DevOps Engineer can enable a service mesh on the cluster and then manage that cluster with a global Tanzu Service Mesh (TSM) control plane.

---

## Test Case Summary

This test case procedure demonstrates how a DevOps Engineer can lifecycle (enable, upgrade, and remove) service mesh capabilities on Kubernetes clusters with TSM.

---

## Prerequisites

* Completion of [SC01-TC01](../operator/sc01-tc01.md), [SC01-TC02](../operator/sc01-tc02.md), [SC02-TC01](../operator/sc02-tc01.md)
* DevOps Engineer console and user credentials
* TSM enabled Kubernetes Cluster

  1. Install TSM extension in TMC. From the TMC portal click on **Administration** in the left menu and then select the **Integrations** tab on the main window pane. If not already enabled click to **ENABLE** Tanzu Service Mesh.

  2. From TMC, install TSM in a cluster and onboard it.
  
---

## Test Procedure

1. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the SC API. 

    <pre>kubectl vsphere login --vsphere-username ***DevOps_UserName***@vsphere.local --server=https://<b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b> --insecure-skip-tls-verify</pre>

    Expected:
    <pre>Logged in successfully. <br> You have access to the following contexts: <br><b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b><br>ns01</pre> 

2. Set the context for the *ns01* namespace with the command

    ```execute
    kubectl config use-context ns01
    ```

3. If clusters `tkc01-small` and `tkc01-small-old-version` are not already present apply the TanzuKubernetesCluster spec(s) to the SC namespace, *ns01*

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f tkc01-small.yaml
    ```

    ```execute
    kubectl apply -f tkc01-small-old-version.yaml
    ```

4. Monitor the TKC cluster deployment progress with the following commands. This step is complete when the output from `kubectl get tanzukubernetesclusters tkc01-small -w` reports *`PHASE`* as **`running`** and `kubectl describe tanzukubernetesclusters tkc01-small` reports the *`Node Status`* for all nodes as *`ready`*.

    ```execute
    kubectl get tanzukubernetesclusters -w
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    NAME          CONTROL PLANE   WORKER   DISTRIBUTION                      AGE     PHASE
    ...
    tkc01-small               1               1        v1.18.19+vmware.1-tkg.1.17af790   19m    running
    tkc01-small-old-version   1               1        v1.18.5+vmware.1-tkg.1.c40d30d    3m2s   running
    </pre>

    ```execute
    kubectl describe tanzukubernetescluster tkc01-small
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    ...
    Node Status:
      tkc01-small-control-plane-8mhw9:             ready
      tkc01-small-workers-s8fxw-65df5bc489-zpzbv:  ready
    ...
    </pre>

    ```execute
    kubectl describe tanzukubernetescluster tkc01-small-old-version
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>
    ...
    Node Status:
      tkc01-small-old-version-control-plane-47d62:            ready
      tkc01-small-old-version-workers-8kmsn-597c96b75-gqztx:  ready
    ...
    </pre>

5. Using the **DevOps Engineer** console and credentials, login to the newly created *tkc01-small* Tanzu Kubernetes Cluster

    <pre>kubectl vsphere login --vsphere-username ***DevOps_UserName***@vsphere.local --server=https://<b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b> --insecure-skip-tls-verify --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-namespace ns01 --tanzu-kubernetes-cluster-name tkc01-small</pre>

    Expected:
    <pre>Logged in successfully. <br> You have access to the following contexts: <br><b><i>SC_API_VIP</i></b><br>ns01</pre>

6. From TSM cloud portal onboard `tkc01-small` cluster on TSM with current version of K8s. Apply `kubectl` commands supplied by TSM.

    Examples:

    ```sh
    kubectl apply -f https://prod-2.nsxservicemesh.vmware.com/cluster-registration/k8s/operator-deployment.yaml
    ```

    and

    ```sh
    kubectl -n vmware-system-tsm create secret generic cluster-token --from-literal=token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.jBPwyzFYyrFLOPY8PnJpfPq5k4P-pQw2ps9KkdGuLlr-2IG3jANTcdxN3h_MMLB6T1gDDkA4nvrIxQedLLsSiec0essygJ6DYnGr_ODVmk2ARGya05UJ8bOiUw8bY0TYFlw8K9eh_vHYi8gO6UQezxASvjzIQ2XaprFjbMk6YluUI3-ZQ_nE0pr0bZPL-9CHwjfx6gjwrvy3FBI7jOrHTC2e74MQm02IMiUPa3nbFVAB1aDaBHaWIB46OIkpygLTiwVPagrnq2MG_yL1T0tKlY7rzUOIH9kHYjkZEn1TLK75Di2j-reDCGffTosTHn9w7S0DYCiRkbu7NbPTOWIR5A
    ```

    Expected:
    <pre>TSM Onboard Clusters will wait for authentication can be established and then verify the cluster. Wait for window messaging to state <b><i>Ready For Installation</b></i></pre>

7. Before clicking 'Install Tanzu Service Mesh' make sure to click 'Exclude all namespaces' and only apply to exactly `default` namespace.

8. Onboard the `tkc01-small-old-version` cluster to TSM by repeating steps 5 thru 7.

9. Deploy an application in both a namespace that has TSM and another that does not to show that only one shows in TSM UI and pods get sidecars (proxy container)attached.

10. See that the TSM data plane versions installed are different in both clusters: the one with the current K8s version, and the other with the old version of K8s.

11. Upgrade the K8s version in the cluster with the old version of K8s and upgrade the TSM data plane on it.

12. Remove one cluster from TSM directly.

13. From TMC, uninstall TSM from the cluster.
